+++
title = "Forsyth Barr (Needles.io)"
date = 2025-08-20
description = "Balancing Legacy Complexity with Modern Data Engineering"
+++
Case Study: Data Engineering for a Major Financial Services Firm

In 2024, I joined Needles, providing data engineering expertise to a major New Zealand financial
services firm. Like many organisations in this sector, the client’s data landscape was a blend of
modern cloud tools and legacy systems, tied together by intricate business logic. My role was to
help them modernise their platform while ensuring continuity for critical operations.

The work was an even split between refactoring existing pipelines and building new, cloud-native
components. On the refactoring side, I improved fragile or inefficient processes, streamlining
workflows without disrupting downstream consumers. On the greenfield side, I designed and deployed
entirely new ETL pipelines in AWS, using Athena, RDS, S3, Airflow (MWAA), dbt, Python, and
Terraform. This combination of skills allowed me to deliver both stability and innovation —
improving the reliability of the old while accelerating the adoption of the new.

A major focus was data warehouse design and architecture. I worked closely with stakeholders — split
roughly 50:50 between other engineers and business analysts — to ensure data models were not only
technically sound but also usable by non-technical teams. In financial services, that means
navigating a thicket of regulations, reporting requirements, and legacy conventions. By engaging
directly with analysts, I was able to capture nuanced requirements and embed them in the
architecture.

To support ongoing delivery, I introduced CI/CD pipelines in GitHub Actions and improved local
developer environments. These changes reduced onboarding friction, improved reproducibility, and
helped the client’s internal team deploy changes with more confidence.

The result was a more robust and flexible data platform — one that could accommodate the complex
realities of financial services data while giving the client a clearer path forward to
modernisation. This project showcased my ability to bridge old and new: stabilising legacy systems
while laying the groundwork for future innovation.
